.TH OLED MEMTRACKER 8 "Jan 2021" "Oracle Linux Enhanced Diagnostics" "0.1"

.SH NAME
oled memtracker - Captures memory usage debug data periodically on the running
system.

.SH SYNOPSIS
oled memtracker [-h] [interval]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Memtracker collects memory usage data periodically on a running system.
This tool is meant to be run continuously. It logs the raw contents of
relevant procfs or sysfs files or the output of commands such as numastat, etc.
into /var/oled/memtracker/memtracker.log file. This log file is rotated and
compressed periodically, by logrotate. Each file can grow to a max size of
20 MB, and at most 20 files are retained.

After compresssion, the size of /var/oled/memtracker/ directory on disk will be
around 20 - 40 MB. The tool tries not to fill up the partition, so it checks
before running if there is at least 50 MB available in that file system and if
the disk utilization is <= 85% (see Use% below). If not, it will exit with an
error message.

# df -h /var/oled/memtracker
Filesystem           Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/mapper/ol-root   50G   19G   32G  38% /

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
-h, --help
        Displays a help message with all the valid options that
can be passed to the tool.

.TP
interval
        Delay, in minutes, between samples (default is 5).

.SH MISC
.TP
The tool can be run on any Oracle Linux 6, 7 or 8 server.

.SH AUTHOR
.TP
Khalid Aziz <khalid.aziz@oracle.com>
Aruna Ramakrishna <aruna.ramakrishna@oracle.com>

.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
oled memstate
