.TH oled lkce 8 "Feb 2020" "0.1"

.SH NAME
oled lkce - Program to manage Linux Kernel Core Extractor

.SH SYNOPSIS
oled lkce [options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
lkce command can be used to enable or disable the lkce-kdump script inside the
kdump kernel.  This can also be used to configure and check the status of
lkce-kdump.

The lkce command is a utility program to alter the behavior of lkce-kdump
script, which runs inside kdump kernel.  [lkce-kdump script runs the crash
utility inside the kdump kernel and information about panic is collected.]

Ex: lkce-kdump can be configured to capture any or most of the crash utility
commands like log, bt, log, ps, kmem etc.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
enable	- enable lkce-kdump script inside kdump kernel.

.TP
disable	- disable lkce-kdump script inside kdump kernel.

.TP
status 	- check if the lkce-kdump script is configured properly to run inside
kdump kernel.

.TP
config 	- configure the lkce-kdump script. This will ask the users to enter the
config values.  Once user provides the values, it creates/updates lkce.conf
file.

.TP
config --default - do not prompt user for values. Configure with default values
overwriting the existing.  Re-creates kdump_pre.sh and crash_cmds files.
Updates /etc/kdump.conf file. Restarts the kdump service.

.TP
config --show - show the configured values for lkce

.TP
clean	- remove all but last 3 crash*out files result directory.

.TP
clean --all - remove all the files from result directory.

.TP
list - list the crash*out files.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
[to be filled]

.SH MISC
.TP
kdump kernel is a secondary kernel used to collect the memory image[vmcore] of
the first kernel when system crashes. kexec-tools is used to configure the
kdump kernel.

.SH AUTHOR
.TP
Manjunath Patil <manjunath.b.patil@oracle.com>

.SH COPYRIGHT
.TP
[to be filled]
